Docs: Add change detection documentation (#34530)
storybooks/storybook: docs/configure/user-interface/change-detection.mdx

</Callout>

The priority ordering when multiple statuses apply is: **new** > **modified** > **affected**.

## Sidebar display

Change detection statuses are displayed alongside [test statuses](../../writing-tests/integrations/vitest-addon/index.mdx#storybook-ui) in the sidebar.

![Sidebar showing change detection and test status icons](TK)

## Filtering

You can filter the sidebar to show only stories with a specific change detection status using the filter menu. This lets you quickly isolate changed stories when reviewing a change.

![Filter menu showing change detection status options](TK)

## Configuration

Change detection is enabled by default. To disable it, set [`features.changeDetection`](../../api/main-config/main-config-features.mdx#changedetection) to `false` in your Storybook configuration:

<CodeSnippets path="main-config-features-change-detection.md" />

## How it works

> When you run `storybook dev`, Storybook subscribes to the builder's module graph via an `onModuleGraphChange` hook. A git diff provider watches your working tree for changes and runs `git diff` to identify modified or new files. Storybook then traces each changed file through the module import graph (by following `import` statements) to find all story files that depend on it — directly or transitively. Stories at import distance 0 are marked **modified**; those at greater distance are marked **affected**. New untracked files are marked **new**.

Reviewer: > Stories at import distance 0 are marked **modified**

@valentinpalkovic — Is this bit correct? Or should it be:

```suggestion
When you run `storybook dev`, Storybook subscribes to the builder's module graph via an `onModuleGraphChange` hook. A git diff provider watches your working tree for changes and runs `git diff` to identify modified or new files. Storybook then traces each changed file through the module import graph (by following `import` statements) to find all story files that depend on it — directly or transitively. Stories with the shortest import distance are marked **modified**; those at greater distance are marked **affected**. New untracked files are marked **new**.
```
